The authors retrospectively evaluated all patients (children) who underwent ?xation of femoral fractures or osteotomies utilizing straight LCPs at a tertiary pediatric medical center from 2004 to 2009.  Thirty-seven patients (25 male/12 female, ages 5-16 years) who underwent 41 straight LCP fixations during the study period were selected.  Twenty-five of these patients (25 procedures) presented with acute femoral fracture.  Sixteen procedures (12 patients) were associated with elective osteotomy or limb lengthening.  Thirty-five of the 41 plates were removed after complete clinical and radiographic union.  The mean time from fixation to plate removal was 13 months (range 5-34 months) in the fracture group and 17.6 months (range 7.5-28 months) in the osteotomy group.  Complications included 1 patient who required a second procedure within 24 hours due to malreduction of the fracture.  5 procedures (12%) were associated with postoperative fractures or refractures.  2 of these 5 cases involved early fractures after the index surgery (1 at the proximal screw, 1 through the original fracture site with plate breakage).  The remaining 3 patients refractured at the original fracture site or regenerative site after plate removal.  The average time from plate removal to refracture was 18 days (range 10-30 days).  There was no difference in demographics, timing, or techniques between those who fractured and those who did not. Due to their stiffness, LCP may carry the risk of stress shielding the fracture site leading to postoperative fracture or refracture.  More studies are required to evaluate the risk factors that could lead to postoperative fracture or refracture, particularly in children.  Care should be taken, particularly in the initial 5 weeks, after plate removal.  
The authors presented suggested guidelines:
•	Consider using a wide vs. a narrow LCP in overweight patients
•	Delay plate removal until at least 1-year post fracture fixation
•	Utilize partial weight bearing for at least 1 month post a plate removal procedure
The study was conducted to assess the efficacy of distal femoral extension osteotomy (DFEO), fixed with a 900 paediatric condylar locking compression plate, and patella tendon advancement (PTA) to improve function in cerebral palsy patients who exhibit crouch gait. For this prospective study, a total of 26 consecutive patients (52 knees) with a mean age of 14.36 years (range 11.6-20) were selected. All of the patients had diplegic and quadriplegic cerebral palsy with crouch gait knee flexion deformity of <30° and gross motor functional classification system (GMFCS) levels II, III, and IV. All patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months postoperatively. The mean duration of surgery was 2 hrs and the mean blood loss during surgery was 100 ml. Of the 26 patients (14 male/12 female), 16 patients were implanted with a 5.0 mm pediatric condylar LCP. The remaining 10 patients required a 3.5 mm plate.There were complications in 4 patients, in 3 patientstransient peroneal nerve palsy occurred which recovered completely and in 1 patient superficial wound dehiscenceoccurred which lead to tendon pull-out or deep infectionwithout any loss of fixation.
The goal of the procedure was to achieve normal knee extension and flexion. The study concluded that postoperatively there were improvements in all 26 patients. The mean knee Flexion Deformity improved significantly from 20.76° ± 6.57 to 0.67° ± 2.62, mean muscle strength of quadriceps improved from 3.01 ± 0.5 to 3.5 ± 0.54, mean extension lag improved from 20 ± 7.14° to 4.13 ± 4.16°. The mean GMFM-D improved from 15.58 ± 6.2 to 26.31 ± 5.8, while the mean FMS for 5 m improved from 2.9 ± 1.09 to 3.65 ± 0.84.
The authors concluded that DFEO combined with PTA provides favourable outcomes in children with crouch gait. The procedure is short, is associated with minimal blood loss and a low complication rate. Further, utilizing a 90° pediatric condylar LCP, for this procedure, has several advantages: (1) It provides better stability in osteoporotic bones. (2) it allows for early mobilization and weight bearing.
Twenty-seven patients participate in the study comparing compare radiographic and clinical midterm outcomes of posterior malleolar fractures treated with posterior buttress plating versus anterior to posterior lag screw fixation. Sixten patients underwent posterior buttress plating, and eleven underwent AP screw fixation with mean follow-up times of (72.3% @ 54.9) and (73.3% @ 32) months, respectively.  Other demographic factors, including age, gender, smoking status, syndesmotic injury, % of plafond involvement and comminution of the malleolus, were controlled for in the patient selection process.  The posterolateral plating group demonstrated superior postoperative Short Musculosketal Function Assessment (SMFA) scores compared with the AP screw group with statistically significant differences in SMFA bother index (26.7 vs. 9.2, P = 0.03) with trends toward improvement in the mobility (28.3 vs. 12.9, P = 0.08) and functional indices (20.2 vs. 9.4, P = 0.08). One patient in each group underwent removal of all ankle hardware as they were felt to have hardware-related pain. In neither case was the pain specifically related to the posterior malleolar fixation. (2 patients in each group had a residual gap/step-off. There was no significant difference in the percentage that developed postoperative arthritis between groups. Two patients (20%) developed significant postoperative arthritis (Bargon grade 2 or 3) in the AP screw group versus 6 patients (37.5%) in the PL plate group (P = 0.42). There were no significant differences in the range of motion or the development of ankle arthritis over time. The authors concluded that patients with trimalleolar ankle fractures in whom the posterior malleolus was treated with posterolateral buttress plating had superior clinical outcomes at follow-up compared with those treated with AP screws.Both	To evaluate the incidence of backache with 26G Quinck and Atraucan spinal needles and to demonstrate the needles handling characteristics.
Follow up was conducted for eight days post-op. 	. Spinal anesthesia was successfully performed at one attempt in 92.7% and 86.4% of patients in Groups A and Q.	Backache incidences during a 1-week period postoperatively and handling characteristics of the needles were noted. PDPB was encountered in 62.4% and 44.2% of patients in Groups A and Q, respectively, and the difference was statistically significant.	PDPB may be encountered less in patients who received spinal anesthesia via 26G Quincke spinal needles than when using Atraucan.

Both	Single-center retrospective observational study evaluating	Compare the safety and
efficacy of RSB with TEA shortly after having changed from TEA to RSB in pancreas transplant patients. Specific followup time was not stated.	The administered amount of intravenous morphine equivalents (MEQ) was not significantly different between the RSB and TEA groups. The median MEQ consumption per day during the stay at the hospital was 23 mg MEQ/d (interquartile range [IQR], 14e33 mg MEQ/d) in the TEA group compared with 19 mg MEQ/d (IQR, 14e32 mg MEQ/d) in the RSB group (P ¼ .4). The duration of the pain catheters was significantly longer in the RSB group.	No noted complications related to insertion, use, or removal of the RSB
or the TEA catheters.	Based on results the authors concluded that RSB is safe and feasible postoperative analgesic technique similar to TEA in heavily anticoagulated pancreas transplant patients.

The study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the 308nm excimer laser (XTRAC laser) to treat atopic dermatitis. There were 15 total patients enrolled in the study with 9 being female and 6 being male within the age of 13 to 24 years.  One patient was withdrawn from the study due to noncompliance. The patients’ lesions were exclusively on the flexor surfaces of the upper and lower extremities with less than 20% of the body being affected. Treatments were given twice a week (not on consecutive days) for four to eight weeks. Except for Repair emollient, no other medications or treatments were administered. Lesion severity was assessed with a clinical score characterizing the intensity of lesions, a questionnaire assessing their quality of life and a visual linear analogue scale that depicted the severity of pruritus. The initial doses of treatment ranged from 150 to 450 mJ/cm (mean of 1.66 J/cm). Prior to treatment the EASI score mean was 8.5, but decreased to 3.57 after treatment.  The mean score of quality of life was 6.57 to decrease to 1.71 following treatments. Pruritus was noted to decrease after one week of treatment. There were no side-effects or complications observed during the study suggesting that the excimer laser is effective in treating atopic dermatitis.
In this study it was found that the catheter placement was often associated with improvement in quality of life due to symptom palliation and increased mobility. These results suggest that the PleurX catheter may be considered for treatment of children and young adults with symptomatic malignant effusions. There
were no acute complications from PleurX placement.

Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) treatment was performed on73 patients using EXOGEN® between October 2010 and October 2013.13 patients were excluded as they did not meet the inclusion criteria, as they were treated with surgery before the end of their therapy treatment. Altogether, 61 non-unions in 60 patients were examined. Patients received follow-up regularly and were examined radiologically and clinically after 6 and 12 weeks, and after 4, 5, 6, and 12 months or completion of bone consolidation. The average age of the patients was 45.4±9.81(18-63) years. The study was primarily comprised of men (91.8%) who had a BMI of 28.9±5.4(21.1-44.2). 26 patients (42.6%)included in the study were smokers. The tibia was affected in 35 patients, and the femur was affected in 11 patients. 14 patients had an osteitis in their history before therapy. At the time of therapy, 37 patients had osteosynthesis with a plate, 13 had intramedullary nail, and 11 had an external fixator. LIPUS therapy was successful and a complete healing of the non-union was observed in 20 cases (32.8%), while 41 cases (67.2%) had to receive further surgery. In patients with healed non-unions, the average time to healing was 5.3±1.9 (2-7) months. The time from beginning LIPUS therapy to achievement of full weight bearing was, on average, 7.5±5.6 (1-23) months. Full weight bearing was not achieved by the end of the study in 15 cases (24.6%).In regard to complications, one patient with a history of osteitis developed an abscess in the fourth week of LIPUS therapy that needed to be treated surgically. The authors reported that most of the patients (70.5%) were 
unsatisfied with the LIPUS therapy and found that it was not helpful. Further, it was also reported that in a number of patients, LIPUS lead to a significant extension of therapy and disability. In conclusion, a case-to-case basis evaluation is required for the use of LIPUS therapy, as its indications differ considerably from the surgical indications.
This retrospective study involved reviewing the records of patients who were undergoing treatment for recurrent, symptomatic, pleural effusion secondary to advanced heart failure and who had undergone at least two unilateral thoracenteses. All of the patients were treated by the same surgeons at the Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, St. Vincent Hospital, Indianapolis, Indiana.  Eighty (80) patients were selected from the (144) cases that were reviewed.   These patients were propensity-matched using sex,age, inpatient status, NYHA Classification and mean Charlson index.  There were (40) patients selected each for the (2) treatment cohorts: thoracoscopic pleurodesis (TP) and the use of a tunneled pleural catheter (TPC)(Pleurx catheter;CareFusion, San Diego, CA). Thoracoscopic pleurodesis is considered to be the traditional treatment for this indication. 
No significant differences in palliation from theireffusion as determined based on a lack of reintervention (TP-5%, TPC-2.5%) demonstrated during the follow-up period (TP-7 months+/- 3 & TPC-6 months +/-2) and the improvement in performance scores. However, the TPC group realized a significantly shorterhospital stay (TP-6+/-4 days, TPC-2+/-2days) as well as a lower rate of operativemorbidity (TP-20%, TPC-2.5%) and readmissions (TP-23%, TPC-5%) than patients undergoing TP.
At last available follow-up, mean survival of the two groups was also comparable. None of the patients treated required further intervention for an ipsilateral pleural effusion. TPC should be considered for palliation of patients with recurrent pleural effusion due to advanced heart failure. 

